---
title: "I Could Be Watching Netflix"
layout: post
date: 2020-11-03
headerImage: false
tag:
- markdown
- elements
star: true
category: blog
author: Gabriel Baird
description: Short fiction
---

### I could be watching Netflix

The streetlights here are too new; remember the sodium bulbs they used to use? They made everything that soft, quiet, yellow. The only quiet color of the 80s. These lights are brand-fuckin’-new. LED or something, and they light up the arboreal canopy, all of it. Six different bulbs per post and each leaf blazes, belly and back in flat platinum. Their pixelated shadows all across the sidewalks. I used to wonder about the shadows. I'd watch my feet as I stumbled home after a vicious Saturday night. On pre-dawn slogs to adjust delicate experiments. It took me six years to look up. That was on purpose, mind. Some mystery is important.


Tonight I'm looking up. The moon's out, high and getting higher. A waning gibbous; a red moon, a harvest moon. The point of light above it is Mars, I think, though I've come to that conclusion because it is bright and red and new, and these days all celestial bodies are suffering from a spot of smoke-induced rosacea. Napa's vines might be ash but if we can't have our blood red reds then we can at least have a blood red moon. It's pretty.


I can't look at it for too long because I don't know what I'm doing and I've already fallen on my ass twice today. I'm being safe - a model citizen, really, with my old bike helmet strapped on and my overused KN95 snug on my cheekbones so that I can breathe in the apocalyptic night.


Some skateboarding basics: put your non-dominant foot up front, and your other one behind. The back one’s your rudder: shift your weight and the board curves. Keep your front toes on the screws, or you'll be taking a dive in very short order. I tell myself it's not laughable to learn to skate at 30 if you learned to snowboard at 13. The only real difference is all the fucking leaves.


California Street is lined with stately oaks, which are probably the only reminder of seasonality in the ZIP code. It's October, it's a hundred degrees, and these things have half blanketed the street with fallen leaves and acorns, neither of which are particularly hospitable terrain for a skating novice. So I ride the yellow lines between the drifts of foliage: this is my street. Nobody's driving around anyways - it's a Saturday night, but the viral plague has got us doing puzzles in dirty loungewear instead of out getting some strange. The sound of wheels on pavement; the moon and Mars; the pixelated foliage. I might cry.


I'm being good, I promise. I'm back to maintenance calories, now, and my shorts stay up again. Getting 7 hours a night, and I'm brushing twice a day. I made celery soup on Tuesday. I fucked a girl yesterday, and a guy last week. This morning, I repotted cacti on a sidewalk with a friend.


I was unemployed the last time I spent any energy thinking about acorns, too. You can eat them, you know. Not raw, but if you do a bit of climbing you can collect the fresh ones and make a flour, and after that a simple bread. That was the plan then - acorn bread made from the trees on campus until I found somebody to pay me. Maybe that should be the plan now, too.


Why am I out here in the middle of the night, when I could be watching Netflix? When I'm upset I'll go walking, an almost-jog through whatever city I'm in, too late at night to be safe. Back in college I added a cigarette. But I'm fine. Nothing's the matter. And this isn't an almost jog, though the air is doing a fine impression of a cigarette. I have everything I could want in the world.


A slow roll takes me down the street, but the slight hill of an intersection makes me stall out. I am flooded with light; the bloody moon, Mars, and the stark white glare of the LEDs.
